What are we even doing here?
Why do we care about JavaScript and
how would we JavaScript if we wanted to?
That's what we're gonna talk about
first to kick things off today.
So what is JavaScript?
Just a simple question, small question.
Would anyone like to describe
JavaScript in their words?
Perhaps folks who've encountered it
before, or been working with it before.
>> I think it's a language
that helps languages, or
that helps websites display and
talk to other websites, I guess.
>> Great, so
I heard a couple of things in there.
One, language,
it's a programming language.
Yes, totally.
Two, websites,
it is a language of the web, and
it helps websites to do stuff,
yeah, to paraphrase what said.
Great, thank you.
Yes, indeed, it is a language
that helps website to do things.
>> Language to modify and
interact with HTML.
That is great.
Yes, JavaScript can modify and
interact with HTML, and
that is exactly what we're gonna
be doing in a few minutes here.
Excellent, thank you, Chat.
Yeah.
>> It's a programming language,
the language of the web.
>> The language of the web,
the programming language of the web, yes.
So we're gonna talk a little bit
about how that came to be as well.
Yeah.
>> A dynamic programming language.
>> A dynamic programming language, yes.
Okay, so we're gonna talk
a little bit about what that
means about how we can
interact with JavaScript and
how we can run it kind
of live in the browser.
>> It makes the web interactive,
handles the behavior of websites,
and yeah,
modify the behavior of HTML elements.
>> Excellent points, yes.
So JavaScript lets us modify websites and
make them interactive, which is a huge,
huge point of this, and that's what
we're gonna be working towards.
So tomorrow, we're gonna be really
digging into the interactivity piece.
But yes, today we're going to be using it
to modify a website is exactly what we're
gonna be using it for.
So these are all great points,
just in the interest of moving along.
This is some JavaScript.
This is a tiny little simple
JavaScript code snippet.
So we have an object here called JS, we're
gonna talk more about objects later today.
But it describes some
things about JavaScript.
So we often abbreviate it JS.
It's a pretty awesome language, I think,
because it can do a lot of things.
And it can teach us a lot about different
concepts in computer science as well.
Because it covers a lot of ground and
has a lot of different styles of
programming supported and kind of
included in the JavaScript universe.
Fun fact is JavaScript
was created in 1995.
So I hope you all like 90s memes cuz
there's gonna be a lot of 90s pop culture
references in this course.
Get ready.
And it was created by a person named
Brendan Eich while working
on the web browser.
Do you remember Netscape Navigator?
Yeah, some of us.
Some of us might be too young
to remember those days.
But so JavaScript was
created in a period of about
ten days in 1995 in order
to allow folks a way to
write scripts or
kind of manipulate webpages.
And since then,
it has really grown far beyond its initial
goal of being kind of a language
embedded in your web page or
in your web browser that can let
you manipulate the web page.
And now we can do all kinds
of things with JavaScript.
We can run JavaScript in the browser,
which is what we're gonna
be doing in this course.
We can also run JavaScript on servers
using a project called Node.js
that lets us run server-side JavaScript.
You see JavaScript even popping up
on things like embedded devices.
There are a few implementations for
running JavaScript on Internet of
things devices, so
smart devices and things like that.
So, JavaScript has really kind of
escaped in the original confines
of being a language dedicated
to manipulating web pages.
And we're not gonna talk too much about
the rest of the JavaScript world, but
again, there are tons of great courses
on all of this stuff, Node.js, etc,
on Frontend Masters.
So my hope is that once we've talked
a little bit about some JavaScript
fundamentals here,
y'all will be able to dive in and
continue running with the JavaScript
journey as far as you'd like.
And the interesting thing is that
JavaScript is sort of like we could
think of it as the the lingua franca or
the kind of common language of the web.
But it has also given rise to
other languages which even
use JavaScript as a compilation target,
meaning some other language
that then gets translated to
JavaScript to run in the web browser.
So we have other languages like
TypeScript and things like ClojureScript,
functional languages like Elm,
there's a course on Frontend Masters on,
that use JavaScript as a way
to talk to the web browser.
So it's a really,
really fascinating language, I think.
And there's, like I said,
kind of an infinity of things
we can learn with JavaScript.
You can do amazing stuff with JavaScript.
You can connect it to
mind control devices.
You can use it to interact with the real
world through these IoT things.
You can, of course,
do what pretty much whatever you
want to a website with JavaScript.
And so
I think JavaScript is pretty awesome.
So in that case, if you all agree
that JavaScript is awesome,
which hopefully you do,
cuz you're here in this course,
[LAUGH] then we can all have a nice
moment of saying, hell yes JS, whew.